# Machine-Learning-Project-02
"Handwritten Bengali Alphabets, Compound Characters and Numerals Recognition Using CNN-based Approach"


Accurately classifying user-independent handwritten Bengali characters and numerals presents a formidable challenge in their recognition. This task becomes more complicated due to the inclusion of numerous complex-shaped compound characters and the fact that different authors employ diverse writing styles. Researchers have recently conducted significant researches using individual approaches to recognize handwritten Bangla digits, alphabets, and slightly compound characters. To address this, we propose a straightforward and lightweight convolutional neural network (CNN) framework to accurately categorize handwritten Bangla simple characters, compound characters, and numerals. The suggested approach exhibits outperformance in terms of performance when compared too many previously developed procedures, with faster execution times and requiring fewer epochs. Furthermore, this model applies to more than three datasets. Our proposed CNN-based model has achieved impressive validation accuracies on three datasets. Specifically, for the BanglaLekha isolated dataset, which includes 84-character classes, the validation accuracy was 92.48%. On the Ekush dataset, which includes 60-character classes, the model achieved a validation accuracy of 97.24%, while on the customized dataset, which includes 50-character classes, the validation accuracy was 97.03%. Our model has demonstrated high accuracy and outperformed several prominent existing frameworks.
